1: The Anglo-Saxons were a group of Germanic tribes such as the Jutes, Angles and Saxons. Their roots come from Denmark and the German coast near the North Sea. The later Anglo-Saxon groups also have a mixture of Normans, Britons and Romans in them 

 2: Shortly before the fall of the Roman Empire, these Germanic tribes began to leave their native areas and began to migrate towards the British Isles. After landing on the island, they began to conquer the local populations of Scots, Picts and British Romans from the British province. Over the years, Germanic tribes began to mix with the islanders and unite into larger tribes. In around 500 year larger Anglo-Saxon communities began to form in southern and eastern part of the Island 

3: In the mid-6th century, tribal areas began to unite into larger clans. Each of these elite families was independent in terms of paying tribute. Over time, the leaders of clans started to call themselves kings. During this period, Pope Gregory the Great chose Augustine of Canterbury to lead the Christianization mission in the Kingdom of Kent. 

4: From 660, the lowland part of Great Britain began to unite into larger kingdoms which began their domination over other kingdoms. Between 626 and 821, the Mercians began to achieve greater conquest successes. 

5: "Golden Age" has started in which the development of Monasticism and learning flourished thanks to Monk Theodore of Tarsus, who was at that time the eighth Archbishop of Canterbury, who founded one of the best schools in that time. 

 6: In the 9th century the kingdom of Wessex began to grow in power.West-Saxon, Mercian dynasty and Kingdoms of Wessex were joined by a union. The enrichment of Anglo-Saxon society caught the attention of the Danes and Norwegians who started plundering the British island whitch continued until 850. From then on, raiders began to stay in Britain for the winter and even settle there. Their attacks contributed to the Unification of the Kingdoms of England.  

7: In the 10th century, the power of the West Saxon kings already covered over half of the kingdoms on the island. The Danish Kingdoms formed a coalition with the King of Scots and waged war on the Kingdom of Wessex, which was quickly ended. After 20 years, Wessex conquered the northern part of the island, which resulted in the formation of the United Kingdom of England with state borders similar to today's. 